---
title: Week 19, 2019 - Imaginary Problems
---

Imaginary Problems Are the Root of Bad Software

> When problems are dumb, intelligent individuals will find a way of coping. But imaginary problems aren’t just the result of bored developers. 
>
> But imaginary problems aren’t just the result of bored developers. They’re also the result of long **chains of communication**.
>
> But everyone needs to keep solving the imaginary problems, because if they stop creating and solving these problems, if they start focusing on the **real** problems, they might realize the whole system is broken. [^1]

---

APT not use HTTPS

> Accessing mirrors over HTTPS would not prevent a compromised mirror tampering with packages, so APT already has other mechanisms to guard against this.
> Files obtained by APT are accompanied by their own signature which allows your system to check they originated from your distribution. These signatures are checked against a small set of trusted keys already stored on your computer. [^2]

---

我为什么讨厌 Java

> 因為它太容易了。它用優異的語言特性和工具生態，把門檻設置得無可再低。
> 我還是把自己當成一個手藝人，所以我討厭Java. [^3]

---

The Twelve-Factor App

> 1. One codebase tracked in revision control, many deploys
> 2. Explicitly declare and isolate dependencies
> 3. Store config in the environment
> 4. Treat backing services as attached resources
> 5. Strictly separate build and run stages
> 6. Execute the app as one or more stateless processes
> 7. Export services via port binding
> 8. Scale out via the process model
> 9. Maximize robustness with fast startup and graceful shutdown
> 10. Keep development, staging, and production as similar as possible
> 11. Treat logs as event streams
> 12. Run admin/management tasks as one-off processes [^4]

---

Nesting resources

> Rule of thumb: resources should never be nested more than 1 level deep. A collection may need to be scoped by its parent, but a specific member can always be accessed directly by an id, and shouldn’t need scoping (unless the id is not unique, for some reason). [^5]


[^1]: [Imaginary Problems Are the Root of Bad Software](https://medium.com/s/story/imaginary-problems-d4f2921bd1b8)
[^2]: [Why does APT not use HTTPS?](https://whydoesaptnotusehttps.com)
[^3]: [我为什么讨厌 Java](https://yuheng.io/articles/i-hate-java.html)
[^4]: [The Twelve-Factor App](https://12factor.net/)
[^5]: [Nesting resources](http://weblog.jamisbuck.org/2007/2/5/nesting-resources)
