---
title: Week 45, 2019 - Respectful Code Reviews
---

From Google: "Respectful Reviews == Useful Reviews[^1]".

> As a Reviewer or Author:
> 1. Assume competence. Start by asking questions to gain understanding.
> 2. Provide rationale or context. help others understand your decision or provide mentorship.
> 3. Consider how comments may be interpreted.
> 4. Don't criticize the person. Instead, discuss the code.
> 5. Don't use harsh language. Code review comments with a negative tone are less likely to be useful.
>
> As a Reviewer:
> 1. Provide specific and actionable feedback.
> 2. Clearly mark nitpicks and optional comments by using prefixes such as 'Nit' or 'Optional'. This allows the author to better gauge the reviewer’s expectations.
>
> As an Author:
> 1. Clarify code or reply to the reviewer’s comment in response to feedback.
> 2. When disagreeing with feedback, explain the advantage of your approach.

---

Research shows that within just one hour, if nothing is done with new information, most people will have forgotten about 50% of what they learned. [^2]

> Techniques to commit new knowledge to memory:
>
> - *Spaced repetition*. Spaced repetition leverages the spacing effect[^3], a memory phenomenon that describes how our brains learn better when we separate out information over time. 
> - *The 50/50 rule*. Dedicate 50% of your time to learning anything new and the rest of your time to sharing or explaining what you have learn to someone or audience.
> - *Topic demonstrations*. Make the most of topic demostrations to understand a topic inside out.
> - *Sleep after learning*. Sleep after learning is a critical part of the memory-creation process, and sleep before learning strenthes your capacity.


[^1]: [Code Health: Respectful Reviews == Useful Reviews](https://testing.googleblog.com/2019/11/code-health-respectful-reviews-useful.html)
[^2]: [How to Train Your Brain to Remember Almost Anything](https://elemental.medium.com/how-to-train-your-brain-to-remember-almost-anything-77cb653a0c04)
[^3]: [Neurogenesis and the spacing effect: Learning over time enhances memory and the survival of new neurons](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1876761/)
