---
title: Week 52, 2019 - Status as a Service
---

Highlights from [Status as a Service](https://www.eugenewei.com/blog/2019/2/19/status-as-a-service) by [Eugene Wei](https://www.eugenewei.com/).

Social Capital

> One hypothesis on why social networks tend to lose heat at scale is that this type of old money can't be cleared out, and new money loses the incentive to play the game.
>
> It's not that the existence of old money or old social capital dooms a social network to inevitable stagnation, but a social network should continue to prioritize distribution for the best content, whatever the definition of quality, regardless of the vintage of user producing it.

> If you can't change the proof of work competition as a challenger, copy and throttle is an effective strategy for the incumbent.

Why Social Capital Accumulation Skews Young?

> Young people are generally social capital poor unless they've lucked into a fat inheritance. For them, the fastest and most efficient path to gaining social capital, while they wait to level up enough to win at more grown-up games like office politics, is to ply their trade on social media.

Why not using Facebook?

> Facebook, with its explicit attachment to the real world graph and its enforcement of a single public identity, is just a poor structural fit for the more complex social capital requirements of the young.

Winner's curse.

> If a social network achieves enough success, it grows to a size that requires the imposition of an algorithmic feed in order to maintain high signal-to-noise for most of its users. The problem, of course, is that this now diminishes the distribution of any single post from any single user.

The evaporative cooling effect.

> When the definition of status is distributed, often one minority has disproportionate sway. If that group, the cool kids, pulls the ripcord, everyone tends to follow them to the exits. In fact, it’s usually the most high status or desirable people who leave first, the [evaporative cooling effect](http://blog.bumblebeelabs.com/?p=1207) of social networks.

The Social Capital - Financial Capital Exchange.

> Social capital can be detected through those exchanges in which it converts into more familiar stores of value. Perhaps the easiest way to spot social capital is to look at places where people trade it for financial capital.

Everybody Wants to Rule the World.

> If you want control of your own happiness, don’t tie it to someone else’s scoreboard.