---
title: Week 4, 2020 - The Self-Effacing Rule
---

From [Who Wants to Play the Status Game?](https://thepointmag.com/examined-life/who-wants-to-play-the-status-game-agnes-callard/) by By Agnes Callard:

> A player of the Importance Game tries to ascend high enough to reach for something that will set her above her interlocutor, a player of the Leveling Game reaches down low enough to hit common ground. The former needs to signal enough power to establish a hierarchy; the latter enough powerlessness to establish equality.
>
> The advanced games really are advanced, in the sense of being harder to play than the Basic Game. This is due to the fact that one must, while playing them, also pretend not to be playing them. Call this “The Self-Effacing Rule.”

---

From [Stop Spending So Much Time In Your Head](https://dariusforoux.com/stop-spending-time-in-your-head/) by 

> 99% of your thoughts are useless. William James put it best: “A great many people think they are thinking when they are merely rearranging their prejudices.”

Can’t help but thinking these things? Well, you can. It's a skill according to the Author. How? 

> Awareness.
>
> That’s where it starts. Every time you start drifting off, become aware of it. Just observe your brain. Step outside yourself and just observe the crazy shit you’re thinking about. Don’t judge. Don’t think you’re stupid. If you do that, you’re thinking again.

This is not a new idea. I once read similer thoughts (self-reflection?) from somewhere or some book. Perhaps I should do a deep reading on this topic.